Label (#4)
serge-andreyev/dotnet-eud: interface-elements-for-desktop/articles/report-designer/report-designer-for-winforms/use-report-elements/use-basic-report-controls/label.md

# Label

## Label Overview

The **Label** control displays plain text in a report. Drag the **Label** item from the [Toolbox](../../report-designer-tools/toolbox.md) onto the report's area to add a Label control to it.

![](../../../../../images/eurd-win-drop-report-control-from-toolbox.png)

> Double-click the label to invoke its in-place editor and enter the desired static text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Double-click the label to invoke its in-place editor and enter the static text.
```

![](../../../../../images/eurd-win-label-static-text.png)

Press CTRL+Enter to submit text changes and exit the label's in-place edit mode.

## Bind to Data
### Display Field Values

You can [bind](../../bind-to-data/bind-controls-to-data-expression-bindings.md) the label's **Text** property to a data field obtained from a report's data source. Click the control's smart tag, expand the **Expression** drop-down list and select the data field.

![](../../../../../images/eurd-win-label-bind-to-data-field.png)

> Click the **Expression** option's ellipsis button to invoke the **Expression Editor**. You can use this editor to construct a complex binding expression that involves two or more data fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click the **Expression** option's ellipsis button to invoke the **Expression Editor**. You can use this editor to construct a complex binding expression from two or more data fields.
```

See the [Bind Controls to Data](../../bind-to-data/bind-controls-to-data-expression-bindings.md) topic for more information.

The **Process Duplicates Mode**, **Process Duplicates Target** and **Process Null Values** options enable you to hide a control when a duplicated or null value appears in an assigned data source.

![](../../../../../images/eurd-win-label-process-duplicates-mode.png)

You can also use the **Format String** property to specify output values' [format](../../shape-report-data/shape-data-expression-bindings/format-data.md).

![](../../../../../images/eurd-win-label-format-string.png)

### Display Summaries

Specify a data range in the **Summary Running** property and select the summary function in the **Summary Expression Editor** to make the label display a [summary function's result](../../shape-report-data/shape-data-expression-bindings/calculate-a-summary.md).

![](../../../../../images/eurd-win-label-summary-function.png)

## Adjust the Label Size and Content
### Static Content

You can change label size at design time to fit its static text. Right-click the label and select the **Fit Bounds To Text** toolbar button:

> * If the **Word Wrap** option is enabled, the command displays control content on multiple lines. It reduces control height and adjusts the width to fit its content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If the **Word Wrap** option is enabled, the command displays control content on multiple lines. It reduces control's height and adjusts its width to fit its content.
```

|---|---|
| ![](../../../../../images/eurd-win-label-can-shrink-true.png) | ![](../../../../../images/eurd-win-label-can-shrink-false.png) |

> The **Auto Width** property specifies whether or not to adjust a data-bound label's width to its content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Auto Width** property specifies whether to adjust a data-bound label's width to its content.
```

> You can also use the opposite **Text Fit Mode** property to adjust a control's font size to fit its boundaries in Print Preview mode. This property is not available if the **Can Grow**, **Can Shrink** or **Auto Width** option is enabled.

Reviewer: "Print Preview mode" - Why 'mode'?

| Text Fit Mode = None | Text Fit Mode = Grow Only | Text Fit Mode = Shrink Only | Text Fit Mode = Shrink And Grow |
|---|---|---|---|
| ![](../../../../../images/eurd-win-label-text-fit-mode-none.png) | ![](../../../../../images/eurd-win-label-text-fit-mode-grow-only.png) | ![](../../../../../images/eurd-win-label-text-fit-mode-shrink-only.png) | ![](../../../../../images/eurd-win-label-text-fit-mode-shrink-and-grow.png) |

See the [Arrange Dynamic Report Content](../../lay-out-dynamic-report-content.md) topic for more information.

## Interactivity

> Check the **Enabled** option in the **Edit Options** category to enable users to [edit a label's content](../../provide-interactivity/edit-content-in-print-preview.md) in Print Preview mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check the **Enabled** option in the **Edit Options** category to allow users to [edit a label's content](../../provide-interactivity/edit-content-in-print-preview.md) in Print Preview mode.
```

![](../../../../../images/eurd-win-label-edit-options-enabled.png)

Click this label in a previewed document to invoke the editor.

![](../../../../../images/eurd-win-label-content-editing-in-print-preview.png)

> Use the label's **Interactive Sorting** option to allow users to click this label in Print Preview to sort report data. Set the **Target Band** property to the required Group Header or Detail band, and specify the data field in the **Field Name** property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the label's **Interactive Sorting** option to allow users to click this label in Print Preview to sort report data. Set the **Target Band** property to the Group Header or Detail band, and specify the data field in the **Field Name** property.
```
